the news was astonishing and it traveled
swiftly around the world
goal
had been discovered in California
almost overnight tens of thousands
rushed off obsessed with striking it
rich
what the goldrush did was to give people
permission to take risks to gamble on
life in a way that they hadn't been
willing to gamble before goal
represented the possibility of starting
anew
person inventing a new self
it's a metaphor for hope the gold rush
was the first time people from all of
the continents came together into one
particular place it didn't always work
so well
we can look to that as a pivotal event
in human history where you see created
for the very first time a world-class
multi-ethnic multi-religious
multicultural society
lured by the promise of gold by the
chance to change their lives than an
instant they would come
an impoverished aristocrat from Chile
anxious to recoup his family's fortune
and a strong-minded pioneer woman who
refused to be left behind in Missouri
when her husband came down with gold
fever a California schoolteacher with
dreams of becoming a Lando a sea
captain's son from New England with
everything to prove
and the blacksmith from New York who
wrenched himself away from his wife and
children and risked all that he had in
the hopes of securing a more prosperous
future
next to the civil war in the 19th
century no other event had a greater
impact more long-lasting reverberations
than the gold rush
to transform obviously California but
more importantly it transformed America
you